Add EIP-5773: Multi-Resource Token standard (#5773)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5773.md

---
eip: 5773

> title: Multi-Resource Token

Reviewer: Probably a bit too vague. Try to expand a tiny bit about what resources are, or what you can do with these tokens while staying under the character limit.

> description: An interface for Multi-Resource tokens.

Reviewer: Try not to make this just a rewording of the title. It should expand a little beyond what's in the title.

author: Bruno Škvorc (@Swader), Cicada (@CicadaNCR), Steven Pineda (@steven2308), Stevan Bogosavljevic (@stevyhacker), Jan Turk (@ThunderDeliverer)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/multiresource-tokens/11326
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-10-10
requires: 165, 721
---

## Abstract

> The Multi-Resource NFT standard allows for the construction of a new primitive: context-dependent output of multimedia information per single NFT.

Reviewer 2: WDYM by primitive?

Author: We were referring to a simple, clearly defined, structure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Multi-Resource NFT standard allows for the construction of a new simple, clearly defined structure for context-dependent output of multimedia information per single NFT.
```
"Primitive" is very often associated with language features. I suggest this wording.

Author: This makes sense. Thank you 😄

An NFT can have multiple resources (outputs), and orders them by priority. They do not have to match in mimetype or tokenURI, nor do they depend on one another. Resources are not standalone entities, but should be thought of as “namespaced tokenURIs” that can be ordered at will by the NFT owner, but only modified, updated, added, or removed if agreed on by both the owner of the token and the issuer of the token.

## Motivation

> In the four years since the original [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) was published, the need for additional utility resulted in countless implementations on how to provide it. The Multi-Resource Non-Fungible Token standard improves upon it in the following areas:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the four years since [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) was published, the need for additional functionality has resulted in countless extensions. This EIP improves upon EIP-721 in the following areas:
```

- [Cross-metaverse compatibility](#cross-metaverse-compatibility)
- [Multi-media output](#multi-media-output)
- [Media redundancy](#media-redundancy)
- [NFT evolution](#nft-evolution)

### Cross-metaverse compatibility

> Cross-metaverse compatibility could also be referred to as cross-engine compatibility and (for example) solves the issue where cosmetic item for game A is not portable into game B because the engines are different - it is not a simple matter of just having said cosmetic item, or an NFT.
> 
> With Multi-Resource NFTs, it is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cross-metaverse compatibility could also be referred to as cross-engine compatibility. An example of this is where a cosmetic item for game A is not available in game B because the frameworks are incompatible.
```
The parts that are omitted from this are Rationale.

> One resource is a cosmetic item for game A, an actual cosmetic item file. Another is a cosmetic item file for game B. A third is a generic resource intended to be shown in catalogs, marketplaces, portfolio trackers - a representation, stylized thumbnail, or animated demo or trailer of the cosmetic item that renders outside of any of the two games.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is a more concrete example. One resource is a cosmetic item for game A, a file containing the cosmetic assets. Another is a cosmetic asset file for game B. A third is a generic resource intended to be shown in catalogs, marketplaces, portfolio trackers, or other generalized NFT viewers, containing a representation, stylized thumbnail, and animated demo/trailer of the cosmetic item.
```

> When using the NFT in such a game, not only don't the game developers need to pre-build the asset into the game and then allow it based on NFT balance in the logged in web3 account, but the NFT has everything it needs in its cosmetic item file, making storage and ownership of this cosmetic item decentralized and not reliant on the game development team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This EIP adds a layer of abstraction, allowing game developers to directly pull asset data from a user's NFTs instead of hard-coding it.
```

> An NFT of an eBook can be represented as a PDF, MP3, or some other format, depending on what software loads it. If loaded into an eBook reader, a PDF should be displayed, and if loaded into an audiobook application, the MP3 representation should be used. Other metadata could be present in the NFT (perhaps the book’s cover image) for identification on various marketplaces, SERP pages, or portfolio trackers.

Reviewer: SERP?

> After the fact, this NFT can be given further utility by means of new additional resources: more games, more cosmetic items, appended to the same NFT. Thus, a game cosmetic item as an NFT becomes an ever-evolving NFT of infinite utility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This is Rationale; remove it or put it in the Rationale section.

### Multi-media output

> An NFT that is an eBook can be both a PDF and an audio file at the same time, and depending on which software loads it, that is the media output that gets consumed: PDF if loaded into an eBook reader, audio if loaded into an audio book application. Additionally, an extra resource that is a simple image can be present in the NFT, intended for showing on the various marketplaces, SERP pages, portfolio trackers and others - perhaps the book’s cover image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An NFT of an eBook can be represented as a PDF, MP3, or some other format, depending on what software loads it. If loaded into an eBook reader, a PDF should be displayed, and if loaded into an audiobook application, the MP3 representation should be used. Other metadata could be present in the NFT (perhaps the book’s cover image) for identification on various marketplaces, SERP pages, or portfolio trackers.
```

With Multi-Resource NFTs, a minter or another pre-approved entity is allowed to suggest a new resource to the NFT owner who can then accept it or reject it. The resource can even target an existing resource which is to be replaced.

This allows level-up mechanics where, once enough experience has been collected, a user can accept the level-up. The level-up consists of a new resource being added to the NFT, and once accepted, this new resource replaces the old one.

As a concrete example, think of Pokemon™️ evolving - once enough experience has been attained, a trainer can choose to evolve their monster. With Multi-Resource NFTs, it is not necessary to have centralized control over metadata to replace it, nor is it necessary to airdrop another NFT into the user’s wallet - instead, a new Raichu resource is minted onto Pikachu, and if accepted, the Pikachu resource is gone, replaced by Raichu, which now has its own attributes, values, etc.

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

````solidity

> /// @title ERC-**** Multi-Resource Token Standard

Reviewer 2: Please replace all the **** with 5773.

    ///  in the storage.
    /// @param tokenId The ID of the token of which to retrieve the pending resource set
    /// @return An array of uint64 resource IDs corresponding to pending resources
    function getPendingResources(uint256 tokenId) external view returns(uint64[] memory);

    /// @notice Returns an array of uint16 resource priorities.
    /// @dev No validation is done on resource priority ranges, sorting MUST be
    ///  handled by the frontend.
    /// @param tokenId The ID of the token of which to retrieve the active resource set
    ///  priorities
    /// @return An array of uint16 resource priorities corresponding to active resources
    function getActiveResourcePriorities(uint256 tokenId) external view returns(uint16[] memory);

    /// @notice Returns the uint64 resource ID that would be overwritten when accepting the
    ///  pending resource with ID resId on token.
    /// @param tokenId The ID of the token of which we want to overwrite the pending resource
    /// @param resId The resource ID which MAY overwrite another
    /// @return A uint64 corresponding to the resource ID of the resource that would be overwritten

>     function getResourceOverwrites(uint256 tokenId, uint64 resId) external view returns(uint64);

Reviewer: Maybe use `newResId` to make it more obvious that the argument is the overwriting resource (not the overwritten one.)

    /// @notice Returns the metadata of the resource associated with `resourceId`
    /// @param resourceId The ID of the resource for which we are trying to retrieve the
    ///  resource metadata
    /// @return The metadata of the resource with ID equal to `resourceId`

>     function getResourceMeta(uint64 resourceId) external view returns (string memory);

Reviewer: The output of this function isn't defined in the Specification section. Is it a URL? JSON?

    /// @notice Fetches resource data for the token's active resource with the given index.

>     /// @dev Resources are stored by reference mapping _resources[resourceId].

Reviewer: This is an implementation detail and shouldn't be in the EIP.

    /// @dev MUST emit the ApprovalForAllForResources event.
    /// @dev The contract MUST allow multiple operators per owner.
    /// @param operator Address to add to the set of authorized operators
    /// @param approved True if the operator is approved, false to revoke approval
    function setApprovalForAllForResources(address operator, bool approved) external;

    /// @notice Get the approved address for resources for a single token.
    /// @dev MUST revert if `tokenId` is not a valid token ID.
    /// @param tokenId The ID of the token to find the approved address for
    /// @return The approved address for this token, or the zero address if there is none
    function getApprovedForResources(uint256 tokenId) external view returns (address);

    /// @notice Query if an address is an authorized operator for resources of
    ///  another address.
    /// @param owner The address that owns the tokens
    /// @param operator The address that acts on behalf of the owner
    /// @return True if `operator` is an approved operator for `owner`, false otherwise
    function isApprovedForAllForResources(address owner, address operator) external view returns (bool);

}

> interface ERC165 {
> 
>     function supportsInterface(bytes4 interfaceID) external view returns (bool);
> 
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Can just omit this. If anyone is curious, they can go look at that EIP.

````

## Rationale

With NFTs being a widespread form of tokens in the Ethereum ecosystem and being used for a variety of use cases, it is time to standardize additional utility for them. Having multiple resources associated with a single NFT allows for greater utility and usability.

The cross-metaverse or rather cross-engine compatibility issue could be solved by this EIP by having resources compatible with multiple engines or metaverses associated with the same NFT.

> Such NFT can be given further utility by means of new additional resources: more games, more cosmetic items, appended to the same NFT. Thus, a game cosmetic item as an NFT becomes an ever-evolving NFT of infinite utility.

Reviewer: This is all Motivation, not Rationale. The Rationale section should explain individual technical choices made within this EIP, while the Motivation should justify the existence of the EIP as a whole.

### Resource management

Several functions for resource management are included. In addition to permissioned migration from "Pending" to "Active", the owner of a token MAY also drop resources from both the active and the pending array -- an emergency function to clear all entries from the pending array MUST also be included.

## Backwards Compatibility

The MultiResource token standard has been made compatible with [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) in order to take advantage of the robust tooling available for implementations of EIP-721 and to ensure compatibility with existing EIP-721 infrastructure.

## Test Cases

The RMRK MultiResource lego block implementation includes test cases written using Hardhat.

## Reference Implementation

RMRK MultiResource lego block and documentation

- Compatible with the original version of the standard

Neon Crisis, by CicadaNCR

- A NFT game utilizing RMRK MultiResource lego block

Snake Soldiers, by Steven Pineda

> - A NFT game utilizing RMRK MultiResource lego block

Reviewer: Please include the reference implementation in the `assets` directory if you have a compatible license (free to redistribute and doesn't place additional restrictions on downstream projects like Apache, MIT, or preferably CC0.)

If you cannot include them, just remove these projects.

---
eip: 5773

> title: Multi-Resource context-dependent tokens

Reviewer: Hm, maybe:

```suggestion
title: Multimedia Metadata for Tokens
```

Not a hard suggestion because naming is hard...

Author: We agreed on a new name: `Context-Dependent Multi-Asset Tokens`

While *asset* is still very broad, we added an entry to the `Rationale` explaining the need for such a broad term.

     *  owned by the caller.
     * @dev Requirements:
     *
     *  - The `operator` cannot be the caller.
     * @dev Emits an {ApprovalForAllForResources} event.
     * @param operator Address of the account to which the operator role is granted or revoked from
     * @param approved The boolean value indicating whether the operator role is being granted (`true`) or revoked
     *  (`false`)
     */
    function setApprovalForAllForResources(address operator, bool approved)
        external;

    /**
     * @notice Used to check whether the address has been granted the operator role by a given address or not.
     * @dev See {setApprovalForAllForResources}.
     * @param owner Address of the account that we are checking for whether it has granted the operator role
     * @param operator Address of the account that we are checking whether it has the operator role or not
     * @return bool The boolean value indicating whether the account we are checking has been granted the operator role
     */
    function isApprovedForAllForResources(address owner, address operator)
        external
        view
        returns (bool);
}
````

> The metadata, to which the metadata URI of the resource points, MAY contain a JSON response with the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getResourceMetadata` function returns the resource's metadata URI. The metadata, to which the metadata URI of the resource points, MAY contain a JSON response with the following fields:
```

This allows level-up mechanics where, once enough experience has been collected, a user can accept the level-up. The level-up consists of a new asset being added to the NFT, and once accepted, this new asset replaces the old one.

As a concrete example, think of Pokemon™️ evolving - once enough experience has been attained, a trainer can choose to evolve their monster. With Multi-Asset NFTs, it is not necessary to have centralized control over metadata to replace it, nor is it necessary to airdrop another NFT into the user's wallet - instead, a new Raichu asset is minted onto Pikachu, and if accepted, the Pikachu asset is gone, replaced by Raichu, which now has its own attributes, values, etc.

Alternative example of this, could be version control of an IoT device's firmware. An asset could represent its current firmware and once an update becomes available, the current asset could be replaced with the one containing the updated firmware.

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

```solidity

> /// @title ERC-5773 Multi-Asset context-dependent tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/// @title EIP-5773 Multi-Asset context-dependent tokens
```
